Create FloatingVersions-In-PMUI.md (#9773)
NuGet/Home: designs/FloatingVersions-In-PMUI.md

# Floating Versions in the Package Manager UI

* Status: In Review
* Author(s): [Martin Ruiz](https://github.com/martinrrm)
* Issue: [3788](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/3788) PackageReference with a star in version is displayed under the updates tab/incorrectly represented in the installed tab

## Problem Background

> Currently the user can specify a version range or a floating version, but the current behavior of the package manager UI has poor support for this, displaying an incorrect installed version. If the user indicates a floating version in any package (eg `5.*`) the PM UI will display the minimum version possible (`5.0.0`) as installed even though the resolved version could be different of the resolved version in the command `dotnet list package`. Furthermore the user cannot specify a version range free hand.

Reviewer: Change from: `resolved version could be different of the`  `to resolved version could be different from the `
A couple of small suggestions:

```suggestion
In PackageReference the user can specify a version range or a floating version, but the package manager UI has poor support for this, displaying an incorrect installed version. 
If the user indicates a floating version for any package (eg `5.*`) the PM UI will display the minimum version possible (`5.0.0`) as installed even though the resolved version could be different of the resolved version in the command `dotnet list package`. 
Furthermore the user cannot specify a version range free hand.
```

### Current behavior

> ### Updates Tab

Reviewer: The spec below talks about more than just the updates tab. 

I think the headers need a bit of work. 

* Project level PM UI
  * Installed tab
  * Updates tab

* Solution level PM UI
  * Installed tab
  * Updates tab.

I don't think you have the updates tab for solution level PM UI. 
Consider adding it, but it's very similar to the installed tab.

Reviewer: Ofc the `#### Project File and Solution Explorer` sub-section is good an useful.

With the current behavior even if the user indicated a floating version, such as `*`, for the package version, the UI will tell the user that there is an update available which is misleading.

#### Project File and Solution Explorer

> ![SolutionExplorer](../resources/FloatingVersionsInPMUI/ProjectFile&SolutionExplorer.png)

Reviewer: I think we should update this picture. 

The solution explorer actually updates to the resolved version.

## Problem Background

Currently the user can specify a version range or a floating version, but the current behavior of the package manager UI has poor support for this, displaying an incorrect installed version. If the user indicates a floating version in any package (eg `5.*`) the PM UI will display the minimum version possible (`5.0.0`) as installed even though the resolved version could be different of the resolved version in the command `dotnet list package`. Furthermore the user cannot specify a version range free hand.

### Current behavior

### Updates Tab

With the current behavior even if the user indicated a floating version, such as `*`, for the package version, the UI will tell the user that there is an update available which is misleading.

#### Project File and Solution Explorer

![SolutionExplorer](../resources/FloatingVersionsInPMUI/ProjectFile&SolutionExplorer.png)

#### Project Manager UI

![Package UI](../resources/FloatingVersionsInPMUI/PackageManagerUI.png)

![Project UI](../resources/FloatingVersionsInPMUI/PackageManagerForSolution.png)

```

> The requested and installed versions are not correct because dotnet list package shows a different installed version.

Reviewer 2: We should remain as true as we can to the `dotnet` cli as possible. `Requested` and `Resolved` would be better words than what we have today (Installed / Version).

### Floating Version Display in Project View

When searching for a package in the `Browse Tab` or `Installed Tab` the user is not able to select a floating or range version to install. We will implement a `Combo Box` that will autocomplete the available version of the package with the user input.

This feature will enable the option `*` and ranges to be selected while installing/updating a package. Also enables scenarios beyond floating version and improves the UX.

#### Floating Version

![Floating Version](../resources/FloatingVersionsInPMUI/FloatingVersionInPMUI.png)

#### Range Version

![Range Version](../resources/FloatingVersionsInPMUI/RangesInPMUI.png)

#### ComboBox

![Combo Box](../resources/FloatingVersionsInPMUI/ComboBox1.png)

![Combo Box Gif](../resources/FloatingVersionsInPMUI/ComboBoxGif.gif)

### Floating Version Display in Solution View

We will add a new column to show the requested version to match the behavior of `dotnet list package` command. Show correct highest resolved version in the solution in the package list view.

![Solution View](../resources/FloatingVersionsInPMUI/SolutionView.png)

## Future Work

> * Indicate the resolved version in the solution explorer.

Reviewer 2: I believe this should be included in this spec as it completes it. After talking to users regarding floating versions, not many understand the wildcard syntax even when they use it. We should be very clear with what version is `requested` and what version is `resolved`.

Author: When we were doing the initial design spec, VS had a bug and this has been fixed, the solution explorer does show the resolved version. I will update the spec

## Open Questions

> Should we show available updates for packages that use custom version ranges or floating versions that don’t resolve to the latest version?

Reviewer 2: What's an example of this?

Author: https://github.com/NuGet/Home/blob/dev-martinrrm-FloatingVersionsInPMUI/designs/FloatingVersions-In-PMUI.md#example

In this example the user requested for a version range, but the newest version is bigger than the range that the user specified.
